# Master_Thesis of Yannik Haller

This repository contains all codes I implemented in terms of my Master's Thesis at the University of Zurich. In this work I apply several NLP approaches such as topic modeling (Latent Dirichlet Allocation) and multilingual sentiment analyses (both in an unsupervised manner) with an extensive corpus of Swiss newspaper articles published in German, French, or Italian.
Intellectual property of Yannik Haller. All rights reserved by Yannik Haller!

# Media Coverage of the Pandemic: Evidence from Swiss Newspapers
## Abstract
The global health crisis sparked by the Covid-19 pandemic represents one of the most impactful times of the modern era. Since people tend to increasingly rely on the media in such times of crisis, the media sector takes on an unusually influential role. In this thesis, we examine the role of the domestic media in the development of the Covid-19 pandemic in Switzerland. By conducting a multilingual sentiment analysis with an extensive collection of Swiss newspaper articles published between January 2019 and January 2021, we investigate the interrelation between the tone of media coverage and the trajectory of the pandemic. As such, we analyze how newspapers adjust their tone in response to changes in the national epidemiological situation as well as how the tone of media coverage affects the public’s propensity to engage in preventive behaviors. Our central findings suggest the following. First, on average, Swiss newspapers respond to an unfavorable development in the pandemic with a shift towards a slightly more negative tone in their publications. Second, the degree of positivity in the sentiment to which Swiss newspapers expose their readership seems, on average, to be negatively associated with people’s propensity to adopt precautionary behaviors.
